---
layout: post
title: "Chaincode 2020 Summer Residency"
author: chaincode_labs
name: "Chaincode Labs"
image: /assets/images/residency.png
alt: Image of a yellow rectangle
category: "News"
---
### We’re thrilled today to be announcing our fifth residency program, hosted in our office in New York in June 2020

Over the last 4 years, we’ve hosted a series of <a
href="https://residency.chaincode.com/" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">residencies</a> to help train and develop the next generation of
Bitcoin and Lightning protocol and application engineers.

Chaincode’s mission is to support Bitcoin, and we believe a critical part of
that work is creating a welcoming, inclusive environment for less experienced
contributors to find their start in Bitcoin.

<img src="/assets/images/residency.png" alt="Residency">

### We’ll host two seminar sessions, one for Lightning and one for Bitcoin protocol development (applicants can apply to both):

- The Lightning session (June 1st — 5th) will cover the history of payment
  channels and the Lightning Network; the BOLTs; routing and liquidity; attack
  vectors and privacy considerations; and the future of Lightning. Previous guest
  speakers include <a href="https://twitter.com/tdryja" target="_blank"
  rel="noopener">Tadge Dryja</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/alexbosworth"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">Alex Bosworth</a>, <a
  href="https://twitter.com/snyke" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Christian
  Decker</a> and <a href="https://github.com/sstone" target="_blank"
  rel="noopener">Fabrice Drouin</a>.

- The Bitcoin session (Jun 11th — 19th) will cover the history and philosophy
  of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Core; how to be an effective contributor; the
  categorization of threat models; consensus issues and soft forks; and
  fungibility, privacy and scalability concerns. Previous guest speakers include
  <a href="https://github.com/sipa" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Pieter
  Wuille</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/thebluematt" target="_blank"
  rel="noopener">Matt Corallo</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/giuliacfanti"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">Giulia Fanti</a> and <a
  href="https://twitter.com/Ethan_Heilman" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Ethan
  Heilman</a>.

We’re extremely proud of our ressies, and of the work we’ve done to help
onboard deserving new contributors into the Bitcoin developer world. Our alumni
have done extraordinary things across the Bitcoin ecosystem, whether that’s
joining companies to contribute to open source projects (<a
href="https://twitter.com/actuallyCarlaKC" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Carla
Kirk-Cohen</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/alexbosworth" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">Alex Bosworth</a> and <a href="https://github.com/halseth"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Johan Halseth</a> at <a
href="https://lightning.engineering/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Lightning
Labs</a>; <a href="https://twitter.com/amizi" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">Amiti Uttarwar</a> at <a href="https://twitter.com/xapo"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Xapo</a>; <a href="https://github.com/jamesob"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">James O’Beirne</a> at <a
href="https://www.dglab.com/en//works/#cat-blockchain" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">DG Labs</a>; <a href="https://twitter.com/jfnewbery"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">John Newbery</a> and <a
href="https://github.com/ariard" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Antoine
Riard</a> at <a href="https://chaincode.com/" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">Chaincode Labs</a>), running organizations (<a
href="https://twitter.com/neha" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Neha Narula</a>
at <a href="https://dci.mit.edu/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">MIT DCI</a>),
starting their own companies (<a href="https://twitter.com/Chris_Stewart_5"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Chris Stewart</a> at <a
href="https://suredbits.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">SuredBits</a>; <a
href="https://twitter.com/andreneves" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Andre
Neves</a> at <a href="https://twitter.com/zebedeeio" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">Zebedee</a>) or becoming influential individual contributors (<a
href="https://twitter.com/renepickhardt" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Rene
Pickhardt</a> as an <a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/renepickhardt"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">educator</a>; <a
href="https://twitter.com/wbobeirne" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Will
O’Beirne</a> by launching <a
href="https://github.com/wbobeirne/joule-extension" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">Lightning Joule</a>; <a
href="https://twitter.com/pierre_rochard" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Pierre
Rochard</a> as a developer and advocate; <a href="https://twitter.com/fjahr"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Fabian Jahr</a> as an <a
href="https://twitter.com/OKCoin" target="_blank"
rel="noopener">OKCoin</a>-sponsored full-time Bitcoin contributor). Our
residents have diverse backgrounds and come from all over the world, but they
have some things in common: they’re talented and passionate about Bitcoin and
Lightning.

So if you love Bitcoin or Lightning, you’re eager to learn, and you’re ready to
make impactful contributions to the open source ecosystem, then we’d love for
you to apply. We truly believe the Chaincode Residency offers a unique
opportunity to catapult your Bitcoin career.

We’ll provide lunch and a beautiful workspace located in Midtown Manhattan.
Travel and accommodation are provided on a case-by-case basis. Come join us for
a life-changing educational experience in one of the most vibrant cities in the
world this summer.
